Hello everyone! Thanks for checking out my project! This is the NBA Shot Log project where I retrieved data of every shot recorded during the 2014-15 NBA season. In this summary I am going to explain why I chose this project, a breakdown of the code and what I studied, and an analysis on my data.
Introduction
I chose this project because of my love and passion for the world of basketball and the NBA. During the NBA season, I watch as much basketball as I can and I love participating in discussions and detailed analysis of players and games with my friend. Basketball is the one sport I believe I have a strong holistic understanding in, from how the NBA functions as a corporation to the mechanics of a jump shot. My goal is to work in data science or data analytics in the NBA and I wanted to showcase my passion and my ability through this project. 
Breakdown
My code has a total of three segments where I inspect a different part of the shot log. The first is an exploratory data analysis on an NBA player’s shots. I display basic statistics from 2 point percentage and 3 point percentage to more in depth statistics such as wide open 3 point percentage and the best shooting percentage against a particular defender. I chose to analyze all the components because it gave me a more in depth understanding of what goes into a player’s shot, matchups, etc. 
My second segment was grouping a player’s shots into distinct categories using the k-means clustering method. This allows a user to input a player, and see the different grouping of shots dependent on that player. The player’s # of groupings usually range from 2-4 and we can see the different type of shots they take versus the proximity to the closest defender. This helped me understand the impact of a defender depending on what shot type the player had.
My final segment was a supervised machine learning model utilizing decision trees and random forest. I took two categories: defender distance and shot distance, and ran them in a train/test split to see if my model can accurately determine whether or not the player made the shot. This helped me understand the player’s shot-making ability as well as the defender’s ability to influence a shot.
